now on Cajun news we've been doing this
for nine years we've never had an
incident like this a motorcycle race
crash killed this local 13 year old boy
how young is too young for this kind of
competition an emotional day for Chiron
hormons parents as the wall quote for
their son leaves his school the big wins
tonight for the hit ABC show Modern
Family tonight at the Emmys
live in HD this is K 2 News at 11 on
your side
good evening I'm Anna canzano we begin
with the death of this Vancouver boy who
at 13 was considered a rising star in
the motorcycle racing community today
Peter Lynch became the youngest racer
ever killed as Indianapolis Motor
Speedway which opened nearly a century
ago Katy's Megan Cox Stein joins us live
in North Portland Megan close friends
tell you Peter was more than just
talented on the track yeah a number of
people tell me that he was phenomenal on
the track but off the track he was
simply a nice kid since he was eight
years old peter has raced with a local
club here at PIR we know he was here
just last weekend but I'm told that he
was actually specially invited to race
in Indianapolis and recently that is all
he has thought about he was going to be
a world champion
would have been at just 13 years old
Peter Lance was already widely known for
his raw talent racing motorcycles if you
were even into motorcycles whatsoever in
New York or Florida or Texas you knew
who Peter was I mean how many 13 old
kids have that kind of draw winning nine
national championships and nine regional
titles in a YouTube video Lynn says he
first wrote a bike when he was five his
passion was non-stop he had six inches
of snow he didn't care he got riding his
bike you know I mean he just rode
year-round that's all he wanted to do
Erik Dorn the owner of EDR performance I
was like this shop you know the son of
the shop kinda Hannah maintained all of
lintz's bikes even the last one he would
ride Sunday the 13 year old crashed on a
warm-up lap at the Indianapolis Motor
Speedway he fell off his bike and was
run over by another motorcycle the
person who hit him just 12 years old he
inspired a lot of kids like younger kids
like they wanted to race on the phone
fellow racer TJ heart says Lintz knew
what he was doing but admits the sport
can be dangerous there's there can be a
lot of close dogs actually it all
depends on like who you're riding with
there like Kato level wide in 2009 Lynch
did get into an accident after a
mechanical failure he crashed into a
tire wall at Portland International
Raceway
he suffered several broken bones and
ended his 2009 season but Doran says
Lintz was a rising star who was
determined to get back on track
just a real tragic loss for this racing
community Doren says that Lintz was
always safe he has never been called an
aggressive driver he also said that
Lance was fully supported by his family
he says that his dad told him several
times it was always his choice to race
or not we are live in North Portland
Megan Cox 9 K 2 News consoling words
from him there and hard to imagine that
kids that young are racing Megan thank
you
Peter's death may fuel the debate over
how young is too young for these types
of races race organizers and older
racers defend the sport saying the kids
may be young that they have the skills
to make the motorcycles do whatever they
want them to while his father was
talking about how Peter Lentz died doing
what he loved others say the racers know
going into consequences of a mistake the
top pros who came up through the ranks
say these bikes at 250 CCS aren't too
big for the kids riding them officials
say the track home of the Indianapolis
500 isn't too big for them either big
tracks small tracks you name it and
these kids have proven time and time
again that their skills their training
their background and everything have
proven that these guys are more than
ready for a track like this absolutely
racers say the weather was hot today in
the track asphalt was slick and oily
some racers told reporters they were
never informed that Peter had died they
say if they'd known they would have much
preferred postponing today's race to
honor his memory